<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>1 The Divine Name in the Hebrew Scriptures and in the Christian Greek Scriptures</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12_14.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1642"></a><b>1 The Divine Name in the Hebrew Scriptures and in the Christian Greek Scriptures</b></p>
<p class="st"><b>“Jehovah.” Hebrew, <span class="smcap">יהוה (<i>YHWH </i>or <i>JHVH</i>)</span></b></p>
<p class="sb">“Jehovah” (Heb., <span class="smcap">יהוה</span>, <i>YHWH</i>), God’s personal name, first occurs in <a href="05_BI12_.GE-split2.xhtml#chapter2_verse4">Ge 2:4</a>. The divine name is a verb, the causative form, the imperfect state, of the Hebrew verb <span class="smcap">הוה </span>(<i>ha·wah′, </i>“to become”). Therefore, the divine name means “He Causes to Become.” This reveals Jehovah as the One who, with progressive action, causes himself to become the Fulfiller of promises, the One who always brings his purposes to realization.</p>
<p class="sb">The greatest indignity that modern translators render to the Divine Author of the Holy Scriptures is the removal or the concealing of his peculiar personal name. Actually his name occurs in the Hebrew text 6,828 times as <span class="smcap">יהוה </span>(<i>YHWH </i>or <i>JHVH</i>), generally referred to as the Tetragrammaton (literally meaning “having four letters”). By using the name “Jehovah,” we have held closely to the original-language texts and have not followed the practice of substituting titles such as “Lord,” “the Lord,” “Adonai” or “God” for the divine name, the Tetragrammaton.</p>
<p class="sb">The name “Jehovah” occurs 6,973 times in the text of the Hebrew Scriptures of the <i>New World Translation. </i>Actually the Tetragrammaton occurs 6,828 times in the Hebrew text, including three combination names (<a href="05_BI12_.GE-split22.xhtml#chapter22_verse14">Ge 22:14;</a><a href="06_BI12_.EX-split17.xhtml#chapter17_verse15"> Ex 17:15;</a><a href="11_BI12_.JG-split6.xhtml#chapter6_verse24"> Jg 6:24</a>) and six occurrances in the superscriptions of <a href="23_BI12_.PS-split7.xhtml#chapter7">the Psalms (7:sup;</a><a href="23_BI12_.PS-split18.xhtml#chapter18"> 18:sup</a> [3 times]; <a href="23_BI12_.PS-split36.xhtml#chapter36">Ps 36:sup;</a><a href="23_BI12_.PS-split102.xhtml#chapter102"> 102:sup</a>). We rendered the Tetragrammaton as “Jehovah” in all 6,828 occurrences except <a href="11_BI12_.JG-split19.xhtml#chapter19_verse18">Jg 19:18</a>, where the first-person signular pronoun “my” was read instead of the divine name. Further, based on the readings in the <i>Septuagint, </i>we have restored the Tetragrammaton in <a href="09_BI12_.DE-split30.xhtml#chapter30_verse16">De 30:16;</a><a href="14_BI12_.2SA-split15.xhtml#chapter15_verse20"> 2Sa 15:20 and</a><a href="18_BI12_.2CH-split3.xhtml#chapter3_verse1"> 2Ch 3:1</a>. We also restored the divine name in <a href="27_BI12_.ISA-split34.xhtml#chapter34_verse16">Isa 34:16 and</a><a href="42_BI12_.ZEC-split6.xhtml#chapter6_verse8"> Zec 6:8</a> where “Jehovah” should be read instead of the first-person singular pronoun “my.” An additional 141 restorations were made where the Sopherim altered the divine name to read <i>ʼAdho·nai′ </i>or <i>ʼElo·him′</i>.</p>
<p class="sb">To avoid overstepping the bounds of a translator into the field of exegesis, we have been most cautious about rendering the divine name in the Christian Greek Scriptures, always carefully considering the Hebrew Scriptures as a background. We have looked for agreement from available Hebrew versions of the Christian Greek Scriptures to confirm our rendering.</p>
<p class="sb">The Tetragrammaton in Hebrew characters (יהוה) was used in both the Hebrew text and <a id="page1643"></a>the Greek <i>Septuagint</i>. Therefore, whether Jesus and his disciples read the Scriptures in either Hebrew or Greek, they would come across the divine name. In the synagogue at Nazareth, when Jesus rose and accepted the book of Isaiah and read <a href="27_BI12_.ISA-split61.xhtml#chapter61_verse1">Isa 61:1, 2</a> where the Tetragrammaton is used, he pronounced the divine name. This was in accordance with his determination to make Jehovah’s name known as can be seen from his prayer to his Father: “I have made your name manifest to the men you gave me out of the world. . . . I have made your name known to them and will make it known.”—<a href="47_BI12_.JOH-split17.xhtml#chapter17_verse6">Joh 17:6,</a><a href="47_BI12_.JOH-split17.xhtml#chapter17_verse26"> 26</a>.</p>
<p class="sb">We have rendered the divine name 237 times in the body of our translation of the Christian Greek Scriptures. Agreements from the several Hebrew versions have been found for each of these 237 restorations in the main text.</p>
<p class="sb"></p>
</body>
</html>
