<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" />
<title>6 The Calendar Months of the Bible</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/bi12_14.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="st"><a id="page1647"></a><b>6 The Calendar Months of the Bible</b></p>
<p class="sb">The Jewish months ran from new moon to new moon. (<a href="27_BI12_.ISA-split66.xhtml#chapter66_verse23">Isa 66:23</a>) One Hebrew word, <i>cho′dhesh, </i>“month” (<a href="05_BI12_.GE-split7.xhtml#chapter7_verse11">Ge 7:11</a>), comes from a root meaning “new,” while another word for month, <i>ye′rach, </i>means “lunation.”</p>
<p class="sn">MONTHS           WEATHER                 CROPS</p>
<p class="sc">Sacred  Secular</p>
<p class="sn"> 1st    7th      Jordan swells from      Flax harvest. Barley</p>
<p class="sn">                 rains, melting snow     harvest begins</p>
<p class="sn"> 2nd    8th      Dry season begins.      Barley harvest. Wheat</p>
<p class="sn">                 Mostly clear skies      harvest in low areas</p>
<p class="sn"> 3rd    9th      Summer heat. Clear      Wheat harvest. Early</p>
<p class="sn">                 air                     figs. Some apples</p>
<p class="sn"> 4th   10th      Heat increases.         First grapes. Vegetation</p>
<p class="sn">                 Heavy dews in areas     and springs dry up</p>
<p class="sn"> 5th   11th      Heat reaches maximum    Grape harvest begins</p>
<p class="sn"> 6th   12th      Heat continues          Harvest of dates and</p>
<p class="sn">                                         summer figs</p>
<p class="sn"> 7th    1st      Summer ending.          Harvest concluding.</p>
<p class="sn">                 Early rains begin       Plowing begins</p>
<p class="sn"> 8th    2nd      Light rains             Wheat and barley sown.</p>
<p class="sn">                                         Olive harvest</p>
<p class="sn"> 9th    3rd      Rain increases.         Grass developing</p>
<p class="sn">                 Frost. Mountain snows</p>
<p class="sn">10th    4th      Maximum cold. Rainy.    Green lowlands. Grain,</p>
<p class="sn">                 Mountain snows          flowers developing</p>
<p class="sn">11th    5th      Cold weather lessens.   Almond trees blossom.</p>
<p class="sn">                 Rain continues          Fig trees bud</p>
<p class="sn">12th    6th      Frequent thunder        Carob trees blossom.</p>
<p class="sn">                 and hail                Citrus fruit harvest</p>
<p class="sn">13th             An intercalary month was added seven times in</p>
<p class="sn">                 19 years generally as a second Adar (Veadar)</p>
</body>
</html>
